# An analysis of trends in the student body at the University of Pennsylvania
Scans of old yearbooks from the University of Pennsylvania are available via the University of Pennsylvania's archives. Each of these yearbooks contains a section dedicated to the senior class, where every student is named, and some information about them is given. This project scraped that section from a selection of the yearbooks dating from 1900 to 1970. Additional data was found about the admission statistics of recent classes, just to give a comparison to recent days. The data that was aggregated is available for public use via an excel spreadsheet in the data folder. Once that data was collected, interesting discoveries were presented on a website, available at https://nsobotka.github.io for anyone to view. These discoveries range from the history of women students at Penn, trends regarding majors and greek life, and other interesting facts that fell under no specific category. 

Much more work could be done using the other sections of the yearbooks. These sections included club rosters, specific member lists for greek life, presidents of the student body, selections of student art and writing and much more. This would involve a completely different type of analysis than what was done for this project.

# Notes on the analysis of data
PDF copies of the yearbooks were downloaded from the Penn Archives, and the text was read using optical character recognition (OCR), and then the text was was analyzed using Python and a handful of libraries, which can be found in the Analysis.py file in the data folder. This work was done in terminal because the library spacy seems to have compatibility issues with VSCode, and thus the examples of the code in Analysis.py file are incomplete. They instead are provided to give an example of the code so that all data collection could be replicated. 

While much of the yearbook was analyzed by code, there were certain sections done by hand. For example, the 1940 women yearbook was completely done by hand. This was because the available scan was particularly blury, and it was not possible to accurately analyze using the same methods as in the other files. It also happens to be the shortest yearbook, and made analysis by hand feasible. Realistically this could not be done for the yearbooks that contained over a thousand students.

Additionally, when the yearbooks contained greek life and honors society information in the form of greek symbols rather than spelled out words, the OCRed file would not register greek symbols correctly. This meant the best way to determine the number of students in greek life or honors societies was to scroll through the students and look for all of the occurances of any greek symbols. 

Other interesting pieces of information were gathered by hand as well, including the percentage of students in 1960 that were black women. This was originally done because as I was scrolling through the images looking for other trends, I noticed one black women, among far more white men and women. After that, I scrolled through the rest of the images and counted how many there were. One of the downsides of using text based analysis techniques is that data from images is completely lost. Note that to see this data for yourself, you must go to the original source available in the Penn Archives. 

Other techniques were used to help raise accuracy of the data. These include looking for truncated words, rather than the full thing. For example, "wharto" instead of "wharton", "ngineeri" instead of "engineering", and other similar shortcuts. This was because if the files misread words, often the mistake would come at the beginning or end of the word. By looking for the letters in the middle of a word, without losing enough letters such that the word becomes unrecognizable, these errors could be avoided, and, hopefully, the accuracy of the data would rise. Additionally, if patterns were noticed in the files, surrounding words could also be checked for. An example would be looking at the proceeding words when searching for greek symbols and greek life (making sure that there were two or three consequetive greek symbols in a row).

Finally, it is worth noting that almost none of the data collected will be 100% correct. Despite this, most trends that were noticed should still be reasonably accurate because it is unlikely that errors are too prolific. Interpretations of data are therefore valid, but further research should be done before relying on this data to make significant conclusions. 


# Website creation
JS and CSS help from Aviel Resnick.
